---
layout: post
title: Optimizing DynamoDB Spend
---

Dynamo DB now offers three pricing options:
 - Provisioned Capacity
 - Reserved Capacity
 - On Demand

### Calculating Reserved Capacity Cost
With reserved capacity you pay a one-time upfront fee and commit to paying for a minimum throughput level for the duration of the reserved capacity term. You can use auto scaling to automatically adjust your table’s capacity. Any capacity that you provision in excess of your reserved capacity is billed at standard provisioned capacity rates.

To estimate the cost of reserved capacity we divide the ReadCapacityUnit-Hrs and WriteCapacityUnit-Hrs by the number of hours in the sample period, divide by 100, and then multiply by the cost per 100 units. This is the upfront cost.

We also need to add the per-hour cost at the reserved capacity rate for the number of hours in the period.

### Estimating On-Demand Capacity Cost
With on-demand pricing you pay per request for the data reads and writes your application performs on your tables. You do not need to specify how much read and write throughput you expect, and DynamoDB scales automatically to accomodate load, up to the [configured limit for your account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Limits.html#default-limits-capacity-units-provisioned-throughput).

To estimate on-demand capacity we need to find the actual number of read and write units that were consumed for that period. We can get this figure by using the CloudWatch ConsumedReadCapacityUnits and ConsumedWriteCapacityUnits metrics.

To get the cost we divide this by 1 million, and then multiply by the cost per million units.